In this exercise which has no
particular script to prepare it,
we're going to deploy microservice to
OpenShift Container Platform
using our credentials,
the credentials that have been
provided to us at lab creation time.
So let's just simply start by
having a look at our ocp
configuration file because
we are going to need that or the lab from
page to be able to access the web console.
The ocp4 configuration
file is the /usr/local/
etc/ocp4.config.
And it literally just contains
a couple of values of which
the last 2 are going
to be essential to us.
We're also going to need the
application domain name,
which is the last part of
the NEXUS_SERVER variable
or if you can simply just look
at the WILDCARD_DOMAIN variable.
This is the domain we're going to need.
So let's copy this,
open a new tab in the browser
and type https:// console-
openshift-console. and paste
the application domain next to it.
When the page loads,
we're going to go back to our
terminal and copy the username.
Of course, for you it's
going to be a different one,
pasting it into the username field
and we are also going to copy the password,
pasting it into the password
field. There we go.
So the Developer perspective
is now the default one,
but we are going to slip back
to the Administrator perspective
just for a moment to
see the Home Projects view, where we can
click on Create Project
to create a new one.
What we're going to call it is
deploy-service-
your actual username.
So again, if you don't
have it on a clipboard,
just go and copy and paste
it into the dialog
So this last part has to
be your username because
this platform is used by many
different people at the same time
and this makes sure that
the project name is unique.
If you want, you can enter a
display name and description.
You can leave them empty.
There we go. We've created it.
Let's switch back to the
Developer perspective.
So going back here and
clicking on Add button,
we will select from image,
from Container Image, here
in the list of choices.
So it's this little square and is the
Image name from external registry,
we're going to enter quay.io/redhattraining
/quarkus-expense:1.11.
The image is checked for presence
and accessibility as we type.
So don't panic if it shows
unavailable before you have finished
typing the complete name.
If you do not see a
validated response here,
as you finish typing,
double-check it for typos.
Now when scrolling down,
we have some additional
parameters that we can provide,
such as choose specific runtime icon.
If you want to provide
an Application Name,
we are just going to use
quarkus-expense-app as
the name and the quarkus-
expense as the component name.
All the resources that
are generated have this
as their selected as their name.
In the types of Resources
that we want to generate,
we have a choice between a
Deployment and a Deployment Config.
Deployment config is an
advanced resource that
allows us a finer control over
certain lifecycle phases.
So for our purposes, deployment
will be just fine.
And then scrolling a
little bit further down,
just make sure that the Create a route
to the application option is checked,
so do not uncheck it,
just leave it checked.
We can access some additional
options here at the bottom,
let's say Routing, Health
Checks, Deployment
option, Scaling, Resource Limits, Labels.
We just start by configuring
Routing a little bit.
We'll leave the Hostname
to be auto-generated.
Leave the Path as it is
but for the Target Port,
we will select port 8080,
like this to be receiving the traffic.
We won't make the route the secure one.
We'll just leave it as a
plain text one for now
and once we click Create,
the application gets created.
You can see the topology view.
Right now,
it turned from light blue to
darker blue which means that the pod
is actually up and actively running.
If you have a look at the icon
pointing towards top right,
if you hover over it,
it says Open URL.
Because we have created a
route for this application
If we click this, it is
opened in a new tab
and our new Cloud-Native application
reporting ready state.
If we want to have a look at
the exposed API endpoints,
we can simply add a
swagger-ui URL at the end
and here they are. Oh! look,
it's the familiar expenses application.
So let's unfold the expenses method,
click Try it out and execute it
and as we had expected,
it is the Groceries which you paid
in CASH in the Civilization 6,
which we paid using a DEBIT_CARD.
Let's go back to the web console
and review the resources
that were created using the
new application wizard.
Clicking the center of our
application's icon will show
us the deployment that is in
charge of controlling it.
But in the Details tab over here,
we can see that it's currently running
just one pod, is using a RollingUpdate
and has a couple of Labels added to it.
And it is in a Namespace
called deploy-service,
followed by my username.
We can also click the Resources tab
which shows us the related resources.
So as we said, currently
there's just 1 pod running.
Note that its name is based on the name of
the application resource quarkus-
expense and then generated suffix.
There were no Builds because we
deployed a pre-fabricated image.
There is a Service though
which exposes 3 ports,
8778,
9779 and 8080,
which is also the one
that we used in the route.
And the Route section at the very
bottom shows us the hostname
which we can use to access this application
and optionally some TLS settings.
So if we click either one of those,
we can see the details related
to that particular resource
or we can navigate back and
choose a different one,
such as a Service,
which shows us the pods
that correspond to it.
Or ultimately have a look at the Route
which shows us the details of
how to access this application.
The application creation
wizard does create
some additional resources
sometimes. To find them,
we can always use the Search option from
the left menu and select the resource
type from the drop down box here.
Let's say if you want to
find an ImageStream,
so that is an ImageStreamTag
belonging to this application.
We can see that there is an
ImageStreamTag called quarkus-expense:1.
11 that is monitoring an
image that we had just deployed.
Right! Let's clean up after ourselves,
so just switching back to the
Administrator perspective and using
the triple dots next to our project
in the Project view screen,
click on Delete Project,
retype or copy and paste
the project name into
the confirmation dialog and click Delete.
Once the project is gone,
you can Log out from
the web console and join us in the
next video where we're going to
compare and contrast this workflow
by deploying applications using
Quarkus tooling. See you there.